📝  Modify documentation for benchmark.rst (#189)
KwanLab/Autometa: docs/source/benchmarking.rst

            --reference simulated/${community_size}/reference_assignments.tsv.gz \
            --output-wide ${community_size}.clustering_benchmarks.wide.tsv.gz \
            --output-long ${community_size}.clustering_benchmarks.long.tsv.gz
    done

Aggregate across simulated communities (when dataset index is unique)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    import pandas as pd
    import glob
    df = pd.concat([
        pd.read_csv(fp, sep="\t", index_col="dataset")
        for fp in glob.glob("*.clustering_benchmarks.long.tsv.gz")
    ])
    df.to_csv("benchmarks.tsv", sep='\t', index=True, header=True)

Aggregate across simulated communities (when dataset index is `not` unique)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    import pandas as pd
    import os
    import glob
    dfs = []
    for fp in glob.glob("*.clustering_benchmarks.long.tsv.gz"):
        df = pd.read_csv(fp, sep="\t", index_col="dataset")
        df.index = df.index.map(lambda fpath: os.path.basename(fpath))
        dfs.append(df)
    df = pd.concat(dfs)

>     df.to_csv("benchmarks.tsv", sep='\t', index=True, header=True)

Reviewer: I don't think the code to aggregate benchmarking results should be removed from the documentation. This is a reference for anyone wanting to be able to quickly merge all of their benchmarking results.

Author: I understand. 
I perharps was confused between the two cases. I ran both of the code chunks (when index is unique and not unique) for `625Mbp.clustering_benchmarks.long.tsv.gz` and `78Mbp.clustering_benchmarks.long.tsv.gz` and git the same results.
Can you please elaborate on the differences between the two and when the user should chose which.

Reviewer: If you inspect the python code, you will see the generated benchmarks are being read into pandas dataframes and the index is being set to "dataset". e.g. `pd.read_csv(..., index_col="dataset")`. You will also notice that if you know the "dataset" values are non-unique for your generated benchmarking files (you can find this out through manual inspection or by handling with python/R/bash) then the index (dataset value) will be renamed to the filename of the respective file. This was mentioned in https://github.com/KwanLab/Autometa/pull/141#issuecomment-847348201 so it is placed here as convenience for anyone who may need to aggregate multiple binning results (whether they have unique dataset values or not).

> The first step in benchmarking is to download the test data files. We will be benchmarking the taxon-profiling step and binning steps and thus the files for the same will be downloaded. reference_assignments are needed as somthiing to compare out output with. Same reference_assignmentsfile will be used for both benchmarking.

Author: What you are saying makes total sense.
However, whenever I use any documentation, I see it as a good practice when the developers mention what particular command is doing and why I'm doing it.  I have made some changes, let me know what you think.

            --output-long ${community_size}.clustering_benchmarks.long.tsv.gz
    done

> Aggregate resulst across simulated communities

Reviewer: This seems less descriptive to me than the previous header. Each of these header sections will be indexed along the side-bar in readthedocs. In this case, I think more descriptive section headers would be easier to quickly look-up

Author: Completely agreed that the headers should be descriptive. However, in my opinion, they should also be a bit concise. Headers are generally short and sweet, gives the user a gist of what's in that section.

    ])
    df.to_csv("benchmarks.tsv", sep='\t', index=True, header=True)

> When dataset index is `not` unique

Reviewer: This seems less descriptive to me than the previous header. Each of these header sections will be indexed along the side-bar in readthedocs. In this case, I think more descriptive section headers would be easier to quickly look-up

Author: See comment above

    gdown https://drive.google.com/uc?id=${file_id} -O metagenome.fna.gz

.. note::
    
    1. To follow along with the tutorial below you'll need to download ``reference_assignments.tsv.gz``, ``binning.tsv.gz``, and ``taxonomy.tsv.gz`` files for the dataset you want to run benchmarking on.

    2. Unfortunately, at the moment ``gdown`` doesn't support downloading entire directories from Google drive.
    There is an open `Pull request <https://github.com/wkentaro/gdown/pull/90#issue-569060398>`_ on the ``gdown`` repository
    addressing this specific issue which we are keeping a close eye on and will update this documentation when it is merged.

Benchmark clustering
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Here we are benchmarking the clustering step. All the simulated communities are being benchmarked. You don't have to run all of them, this is just for tutorial purposes.

Reviewer: I think this simply needs to show usage rather than be a full-fledged tutorial. If that is something we would like to do, we should do it in the [KwanLab/metaBenchmarks](https://github.com/KwanLab/metaBenchmarks "https://github.com/KwanLab/metaBenchmarks") repo

.. code:: bash

    for community_size in ${community_sizes[@]};do
        autometa-benchmark \
            --benchmark clustering \
            --predictions simulated/${community_size}/binning.tsv.gz \
            --reference simulated/${community_size}/reference_assignments.tsv.gz \
            --output-wide ${community_size}.clustering_benchmarks.wide.tsv.gz \
            --output-long ${community_size}.clustering_benchmarks.long.tsv.gz
    done

Benchmark classification
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Previously we benchmarked the clustering step. Now we are going to benchmark the taxon profiling step. The only difference is that ``--classification`` flag is provided instead of ``--clustering`` flag.

.. code:: bash

    autometa-benchmark \
        --benchmark classification \
        --predictions $taxonomy ${community_size}.taxonomy.tsv.gz \
        --reference simulated/${community_size}/reference_assignments.tsv.gz \
        --output-wide ${community_size}.classification_benchmarks.wide.tsv.gz \
        --output-classification-reports taxa_reports \
        --ncbi /ncbi

Benchmark clustering-classification
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This will benchmark the taxonomic assignemnt of each bin. To run this you'll need ``binning.tsv.gz`` file for the specific community. This can be downloa by running:

Reviewer: This does not benchmark the taxonomic assignment of each bin. This determines precision, recall and F1 score (classification metrics) on the final resulting binning

```suggestion

This will benchmark the final binning results using the classification metrics, 
precision, recall and F1-score.

.. note::

    First, F1-scores are determined for each reference genome across all recovered 
    genome bins (specifically for clusters containing any of the reference genome's 
    contigs). Then, each reference genome's F1-score is selected corresponding 
    to the respective cluster with the largest set of the respective reference genome's 
    contigs (by length in bp).
```

.. code:: bash
    autometa-download-dataset \
        --community-type simulated \
        --community-sizes 78Mbp \
        --file-names binning.tsv.gz\
        --dir-path simulated

Now running the command to benchmark:

.. code:: bash

    autometa-benchmark \
        --benchmark binning-classification \
        --predictions 78Mbp/binning.tsv \
        --reference 78Mbp/reference_assignments.tsv.gz \
        --output-wide binning_classification_wide.tsv.gz

Specifying mulile results

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: I don't think specifying multiple `binning`/`classification`/`binning-classification` results needs an entire section. An example of this already exists above for benchmarking `--classification`. I think you could delete this :fire:

Author: I understand what you mean and it that makes sense.
However, I personally feel that a usage of a command is more clear if the developers give a clear example or two.

> ``autometa-benchmark`` provides the flexibility of specifying multiple output files of the same dataset and benchmarking them simultaneously. For example, in case you have done the clustering for a sample using three different binner, you can benchmark all of them simulateously. This is really handy when benchmarking multiple tools on the same dataset.

Reviewer: ❗  Could you place this with the autometa-clustering example in the tutorial and add it under a note?❗ 

```suggestion

.. note::

    ``autometa-benchmark`` provides the flexibility of benchmarking multiple results 
    corresponding to the same dataset. For example, if you have clustering results for 
    a sample using three different binners, you can benchmark all of them, simultaneously. 
    This is really handy when benchmarking multiple tools on the same dataset.
```

    df = pd.concat(dfs)
    df.to_csv("benchmarks.tsv", sep='\t', index=True, header=True)

Benchmark classification
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Previously we benchmarked the clustering step. Now we are going to benchmark the taxon profiling step. The only difference is that the ``--classification`` flag is provide instead of the ``--clustering`` flag.

Reviewer 2: `--classification` and `--clustering` are values in the example below, not flags

.. code:: bash

>     autometa-benchmark \

Reviewer: Unassigned variables should not be in the documentation. `${community_size}` should be assigned in the same code block.

Reviewer 2: My opinion is that this overly complicated as a  example. I would remove the for loop and analyzing multiple datasets at once. That could be covered in an "Advanced" section.

        --benchmark classification \
        --predictions taxonomy.tsv.gz \
        --reference simulated/${community_size}/reference_assignments.tsv.gz \
        --output-wide ${community_size}.classification_benchmarks.wide.tsv.gz \
        --output-classification-reports taxa_reports \
        --ncbi /ncbi

Benchmark clustering-classification
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This will benchmark the final binning results using the classification metrics, 
precision, recall and F1-score.

.. note::
    

>     First, F1-scores are determined for each reference genome across all recovered genome bins (specifically for clusters containing any of the reference genome's contigs). Then, each reference genome's F1-score is selected corresponding to the respective cluster with the largest set of the respective reference genome's contigs (by length in bp).

Reviewer: Can you add newlines here? Having all of the text on one line is difficult to read in a text editor.

Author: Hahaha.....Interesting. I personally like the text to be in a single line. 
If I put the text on multiple lines and someone else tries to open it on their end, then depending on their screen size the text may be too much or too little pe line. 
I prefer to wrap the text while writing so that it appears on different lines. So now even though technically everything is on a single like, it is personalized for each user, as wrapping is then done on their end.

Reviewer 2: While it's easier to read in a single line with wrapping, it's better to do separate lines so edits appear as less lines/are easier to quickly see in the commit diff.

.. code:: bash
    
    autometa-download-dataset \
        --community-type simulated \
        --community-sizes 78Mbp \

>         --file-names binning.tsv.gz\

Reviewer: We should also download the `reference_assignments.tsv.gz` here so this section can be performed standalone

```suggestion
        --file-names binning.tsv.gz,reference_assignments.tsv.gz \
```

        --dir-path simulated

Now running the command to benchmark:

.. code:: bash

    autometa-benchmark \
        --benchmark binning-classification \
        --predictions 78Mbp/binning.tsv \
        --reference 78Mbp/reference_assignments.tsv.gz \
        --output-wide binning_classification_wide.tsv.gz

Specifying multiple results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``autometa-benchmark`` provides the flexibility of specifying multiple output files of the same dataset and benchmarking them simultaneously. For example, in case you have done the clustering for a sample using three different binner, you can benchmark all of them simulateously. This is really handy when benchmarking multiple tools on the same dataset.

For clustering
--------------

.. code:: bash

    autometa-benchmark \
       --benchmark clustering \

>        --predictions binner1_78Mbp_output.tsv.gz binner2_78Mbp_output.tsv.gz binner3_78Mbp_output.tsv.gz \

Reviewer: Why not just list some of the binners outputs from KwanLab/metaBenchmarks?

Author: I can, I just didn't want people to upset people. Some people might think that we are specifically targeting or pinpointing the above-mentioned binners.

       --reference simulated/78Mbp/reference_assignments.tsv.gz \
       --output-wide 78Mbp.clustering_benchmarks.wide.tsv.gz \
       --output-long 78Mbp.clustering_benchmarks.long.tsv.gz

For classification
------------------

.. code:: bash

    autometa-benchmark \
        --benchmark classification \

>         --predictions taxonomic_profiler1_78Mbp.tsv.gz taxonomic_profiler2_78Mbp.tsv.gz taxonomic_profiler3_78Mbp.tsv.gz  \

Reviewer: Why not list some of the taxon-profilers outputs in KwanLab/metaBenchmarks?

Author: See comment above
